remember now your Creator in the days of
your youth before the difficult days
come and the years draw near when you
say I have no pleasure in them while the
Sun and the light the moon and the stars
are not darkened and the clouds do not
return after the rain in the day when
the keepers of a house tremble and the
strong men bow down when the grinder
cease because they are few and those
that look through the windows grow dim
when the doors are shut in the streets
and the sound of grinding is low when
one rises up at the sound of a bird and
all the daughters of music are brought
low also they are afraid of height and
of terrors in the way when the Armin
tree blossoms and the grasshopper is a
burden and desire fails for man goes to
his eternal home and the mourners go
about the streets remember your Creator
before the silver cord is loosed or the
golden bowl is broken or the pitcher
shattered at the fountain or the wheel
broken at the well then the dust will
return to the earth as it was and the
Spirit will return to God who gave it
vanity of vanities says the preacher all
is vanity and moreover because the
preacher was why's he still taught the
people knowledge yes he pondered and
sought out and set in order many
proverbs the preacher sought to find
acceptable words and what was written
was upright words of truth the words of
the wise are like goals and the words of
scholars are like world driven nails
given by one Shepherd and further my son
be admonished by these of making many
books there is no end and much study is
wearisome to the flesh let us hear the
conclusion of the whole matter fear God
and keep his Commandments for this is
man's all for God will bring every work
into judgment including every secret
thing whether good or evil